=head1 SPECIFICATION VERSION

0.1


=head1 STATUS

Draft series (0.x), might still change. Will be stable in 1.0.


=head1 ABSTRACT

CSVJF (short for "CSV with JSON field") is an extension to the CSV format to
allow fields that contain JSON string, arrays, or hashes (objects).


=head1 NOTATION

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in RFC 2119.


=head1 RATIONALE

CSV is a convenient format to generate or write manually. However, it does not
allow fields to be a data structure.

CSVJF extends the CSV specification as follows:

A CSV file is zero or more lines, separated by newlines. Each line represent a
row of fields.

The first line may be a header line.

Each line is a comma-separated list of fields.

A field is either an unquoted string, a JSON-encoded string, a JSON-encoded
array, or a JSON-encoded hash (object).

An unquoted string must not contain the record separator character (newline) or
field separator character (comma). If the field wants to contain these
characters it must be written as a JSON-encoded string. It also must not start
with opening square bracket ("[") or opening curly brace ("{") because those
characters are used for JSON array and hash, respectively.

A JSON-encoded string is string enclosed in double quotes ("). Escaping follows
JSON rules.

A JSON-encoded array is string enclosed in square brackets ("[" and "]").

A JSON-encoded hash is string enclosed in curly braces ("{" and "}").

Some examples of CSVJF rows:

 one,two,three

 "field one with spaces","field two with
 newline and com,ma,s",field 3,["field5","array"],{"field6":"hash"}


=head1 SEE ALSO

CSVJ file format, L<https://csvj.org/>. This file format attempts to standardize
the CSV format with JSON rules. It's basically JSON array with the "[" and "]"
square brackets removed (implied), with additional restriction of elements
cannot be array/object. Thus, every string field must be quoted except when a
field is a number, boolean C<true>/C<false> literal, or C<null>. Note that
despite the similar name, CSVJ and CSVJS are unrelated.

IOD format specification, L<IOD>, which also employs the use of encoding
prefixes C<">, C<[> and C<{> to embed JSON string, array, and hash,
respectively.

=cut

#ABSTRACT: CSVJF (CSV with JSON Fields) file format specification
#PODNAME: CSVJF
